# getsong
Given a song name, artist, lyrics or whatever, search for and download a song using yt-dlp.

* Handles multiple arguments (including embedded spaces) correctly. 
* Uses youtube.com URL, instead of ytsearch:
* Allows `-c` to restrict search to videos with closed captions (manually generated lyrics/subtitles).
*  Can read search terms from a file, downloading one song per line.
* If `xsel` is installed, will search for whatever words are currently highlighted by the mouse cursor and download that song.
* Can download videos instead by changing the script's name: `ln -s getsong getvideo`

## Installation

It's just a bash script. Download it, make it executable, and put it in your PATH. 

```bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/hackerb9/getsong/main/getsong
chmod +x getsong
sudo mv getsong /usr/local/bin/
```

## Usage

Usage: **getsong** [ _-c_ ] [ _keywords_ ... ]

<ul>
   
   _-c_: filter to only results with closed captions (subtitles)
   
   _keywords_: a song title, lyrics, artist name, or anything, really.

</ul>

If no keywords are specified, then the X selection (the
last text highlighted by the mouse) will be used.

If you redirect a file to stdin, then getsong will perform a search for
every song listed in the file, one per line. 

## Examples

Search YouTube for a term and download the audio:

    getsong genjer

Search and download audio that matches two phrases:

    getsong "Mr. Orange" "Dengue Fever"

Limit search to only results with "closed captions" (i.e., lyrics or other subtitles manually generated by the uploader):

    getsong -c "A week ago last Thursday"

## Seeing lyrics on the command line as audio plays

The `mpv` program displays subtitles on the terminal if no video window was opened. While playing, one can hit the <kbd>j</kbd> key to see the subtitles. Alternately, one can use a command line argument `--sid=1`:

```bash
$ mpv --vo null --sid=1 makeba.mka
 (+) Audio --aid=1 --alang=eng (opus 2ch 48000Hz)
 (+) Subs  --sid=1 --slang=eng 'English - en' (webvtt-webm)
AO: [pipewire] 48000Hz stereo 2ch floatp
"Ooohe" Makeba, Makeba
ma qué bella Can I get a
A: 00:00:40 / 00:03:43 (18%)
```

## Caveats

Note, that the `-c` option makes captions a requirement, not just a preference. Ideally, we'd get an error message if no captioned version exists, but instead YouTube mangles and ignores the search terms until it finds an incorrect video that _does_ have closed captions.

Another possible issue: YouTube doesn't look at the quality or even quantity of the captions, only whether they exist or not. Occasionally, the "lyrics" to a song will be a single subtitle which reads, unhelpfully, "🎜 (singing) 🎝". In those cases, using the 2nd result (`--playlist-items 2:2`) usually helps.
